I used to have a passion competitive
gaming and I can't really transition
that into anything in real life trying
to find my thermo doesn't really work
for me because I don't feel like I care
about anything else
what can I do great question okay so I'm
gonna tell you guys a story about Tyra
mine a little bit and then because
everyone's wondering how do you find
your Dharma okay so I think that the
problem is that your options to
transition and real life are
insufficient they're like to low level
so generally speaking when people are
competitive in gaming they tend to be
very skilled they're very dedicated very
intelligent and their options in the
real world don't actually like challenge
them sufficiently so I think that the
biggest thing the first thing that you
should do is try to find the hardest
thing that you can do in real life like
don't just get a job I mean if you need
to get a job bagging groceries like get
a job bagging groceries but I would say
like you know likes like there are all
kinds of certifications and stuff that
you can get now so I'd say like get
Google Analytics like certified like at
Google Analytics SEO certified or
something like that you have to decide
what it is for you but find something
that's actually difficult and actually
engaging you know like there may be like
you may be able to find like one of
these like day trading sweatshops like
go hang out there go like see what those
people are doing go challenge yourself I
don't know where you are but if there
are any startups in the area like reach
out to startups and say like hey are you
guys looking for an intern go and do
something that actually challenges you
and don't worry so much about finding
your autonomy right now like it's this
is also you know we were talking to sky
and sky sort of has this idea that like
once he loses weight then he can create
all this content so in this person's
question I used to have a passion and
competitive gaming and I can't really
transition that into anything in real
life trying to find my Dharma doesn't
really work for me because I don't feel
like I care about anything else what can
I do this person has this idea that once
they find their Dharma everything is
going to be easy it's delaying action
until the perfect set of circumstances
which is something that gamers do all
the time right I'm gonna apply to
college when I know I can get into
Harvard and until that happens I'm not
even apply
right I'm gonna go to the gym this is my
favorite I'm gonna go to the gym once
I'm in shape that's the best one that's
my favorite right I'm gonna go to the
gym once I don't feel embarrassed to be
there
brilliant right I've thought it have you
guys thought it it's [ __ ] crazy it's
stupid but we all think that way we all
think like ok my life begins once I get
to this point no your life begins today
it's just a waste shittier version than
what you're envisioning that's the
problem but that's ok so do something I
tell this person to do something and do
something challenging try to find the
most challenging thing that you can and
do that thing I think like I mean so
Google and like Microsoft and a couple
of these other companies no longer
require college degrees they just want
people who are able to do [ __ ] and cool
thing is like we live in this world I
know I'm a Boomer so this may be news to
me like apparently all you kids know
about this thing called the Internet and
you can learn all kinds of stuff on the
internet like you can learn finance you
can learn economics you can even learn a
lot of medicine you can learn a lot on
the Internet you can learn marketing you
can actually like actually do this thing
where you just make this thing called a
website and then you can learn some
skill and you can start charging people
for the skill you can just make it like
you can just learn something and create
a business there are all these kids
nowadays that are like entrepreneurs
like back in my day being an
entrepreneur involved like brick and
mortar and building something and having
trucks and workers but all these kids
nowadays they're just like making tens
of thousands or hundreds of thousands of
dollars without any professional
training like there's one guy that I
worked with like Believe It or Not who
would sell figurines on eBay after
painting them and made like 5 grand a
month just [ __ ] selling figurines he
buys them paints them and sells them
like that's crazy so start doing
something
and try to do the most challenging thing
that you can right now I'm trying to
transition it so next question right now
I'm trying to transition out of gaming
so I'm just kind of curious about this
okay
[Music]
yes so like I'm seeing I'm just looking
at I just did a search for like
Warhammer
and there's like there's three adept
disgusto DS Verta spray ders which are
selling for $80 I don't even know what
that is but the three figurines that are
selling for a hundred bucks like I'm not
saying it's like a lucrative market it
may have like you know evened out in
terms of supply and demand but like you
can make money in all kinds of ways okay
going on to question four
okay so right now I'm trying to
transition out of gaming into learning
marketing so I can actually make money
on my own perfect so this person is like
this is great whoever's cueing these
questions up because this person is one
step after the last person I've kind of
struggled with this problem my whole
life but I basically really get really
into something for a few months to a
year and then I stopped caring and
losing and lose motivation I don't
really like the idea of relying on
motivation because motivation doesn't
have to be the only factor in taking
action but I don't know why I always
have this pattern of getting good at
something but before I master it or get
super good at it I lose interest I'm not
sure if it is a fear of failure or what
but I would seriously love your thoughts
on this because it's been a problem for
me for awhile I've had this happen in
games too where I get a really high
level close to low tier Pro and then
lose interest this is a fantastic
question I'm just going to think for a
second about the answer
okay so there are two there are two
layers of answers to this question
one is why it happens right so if we are
if we start to ask the question of why
does this happen and then we can
understand the root of it and we can
sort of dissolve it as its root the
second is like how to deal with it on a
practical level
so in today's interview we talked some
about like you know weight loss and
stuff like that we ended with like
practical stuff because I think you have
to practically do something so the first
problem that this person has I think is
a problem of what I call orbit so the
problem is that his motivation he's
relying on he or she is relying on
motivation to be the primary thing that
keeps them on track and they've noticed
there it's good they're reflecting and
they've noticed that their motivation is
naturally fueled for a while and then
gets like like fizzles out so this is
very important so I think that the orbit
that you surround yourself with is very
important for sustaining motivation the
simplest way to create and sustain
motivation is by orbit so like what are
you orbiting around what are you
spinning around who's in your orbit and
whose orbit are you in what is your
community so in meditation there's a
saying that one of the crucial things
that you need to succeed in meditation
is something called Sangha si ng H a and
Sangha means community and they say that
like successes or spiritual growth
requires community which is kind of
weird because like spiritual like
meditating is like a solo practice right
it's a single-player game so why on
earth do you need a community if you're
like playing a single-player game and
the simple truth is that like if you're
meditating all by yourself over time
you're gonna fizzle out but if you go to
lectures if you go to talks if you go to
sits now that anchors you to continue
moving forward on your path because
people around you are doing it my
favorite example of this is something
called NaNoWriMo which is National Novel
Writing Month so in the month of
November there's this thing called
NaNoWriMo which is National Novel
Writing Month
we're a bunch of people who want to
write novels and never have gotten
around to it decide that they're gonna
get together and write a novel in 30
days so what these people do is they set
up like things all over the world where
like you go to your city and people in
your city who also want to write novels
get together at random places at random
times so they like build up a schedule
someone says like you guys can come over
to my house I'll be here from 5:00 p.m.
to midnight anyone who wants to come can
come and write we're gonna be at this
library we're gonna meet at this coffee
shop and then like a bunch of people who
have wanted to write novels the entire
year actually managed to write a lot
during NaNoWriMo why is that it's
because their orbit changes in terms of
my spiritual growth like I didn't start
by like meditating at home like I didn't
do that I went to an ashram where I was
surrounded by people who were there to
meditate and for 90 days every day there
were like structured meditations so it's
not habit it's not motivation it's
[ __ ] structure structure structure
structure and when you think about like
so when this person says I've been I've
been learning marketing my question
would be who are you hanging out with
because eight months into this when your
motivation fizzles if you're surrounded
by people who are still interested in it
they're gonna pull you back in
so if you think about even addictions so
what is the most successful alcohol
treatment to date is Alcoholics
Anonymous more people have quit alcohol
through Alcoholics Anonymous than
anything else
way more than doctors therapists
medication actually may be the most
successful thing is quitting it on your
own but there's not good date about that
in terms of interventions AAA is the
best thing and so a is whole thing is
about Sangha community so my first point
to this person is that it you have to
understand that motivation is going to
wane and what you need to cultivate is a
community who are you hanging out with
right I think that's the problem I would
guess that this person is not hanging
out with people who continue to push
them and inspire them to be better and
so you're thinking about like why is it
so easy to like continue to play dota
it's because all the [ __ ] people on
my friends list play dota and so when I
log on like they're playing dota and
then I feel like playing dota if no one
honor my friends let's play DotA like if
it had if I didn't have anyone to play
dota with I wouldn't play DotA like
nearly as much right think about that
for a second and I don't know if gaming
developers like did this on purpose but
they recognized at some point that
giving you a feature to create a
community online will keep you playing
the game and I don't think it's like
about addiction I think it's just about
like that's how human beings work when
we have a community that drives us to do
something we're gonna do more of it so I
think the first thing if your motivation
wanes over time is to think about how
much of your motivation is like soullow
driven are you being inspired and pushed
by the people around you and if not then
that's your problem so the simplest
thing you can do rather than getting to
the root of your problem and all this
kind of [ __ ] that I do on stream the
quick-and-dirty is like create a
community that supports you join a
community that supports you that's what
actually I mean our whole bit like model
our business model or model in healthy
gamer business is weird because we're
not really making money but is to like
create a community for gamers right it's
like we that's why we have a discord
like
I think that this helps like watching me
stream randomly once is fine but when
you guys come back and you're with other
people like think about what we're doing
and why this stream is helpful it's
because there's a community it's because
you're not going alone this is not you
reading a book on your own and just like
listening to all my thoughts it's you
guys come here and oh [ __ ] this person's
question resonates with other people who
are watching that's community and now
you guys are interested in this because
this person asked this question there's
a there's a benefit of like people
working together towards a common goal
and so build a community for yourself
think about the community that you want
to join that's the first thing orbit
Sangha so there's like a scientific
version of this which is orbit and then
there's a spiritual version of this
which is sungki so this - there have
been studies in terms of like
communities and stuff you guys wanna
know about science so researcher Andy
coming prepare yourselves there was a
study that showed like that was looking
at factors for teen age of marijuana use
and what do you guys think the most
important factor is for teenage
marijuana use right it's your friends if
your friends smoke pot you're way more
likely to smoke pot it's not even social
pressure it's not peer pressure it's not
pressure it's just [ __ ] monkey see
monkey do
like when I log on to steam and my
friends are playing dota
I don't feel pressure it's not like oh
man if I don't like play dota those guys
are gonna make fun of me it's not
pressure sometimes there's peer pressure
sometimes there's bullying but most of
it it's just like they're playing dota I
like I'll play some dota 2 like oh
you're smoking - Jon joint give me give
me a hit that's that's what it is so
create a community for yourself and
you'll be amazed at what you're capable
of so I got lucky because like I joined
this community where I peers and
colleagues who were very motivated to do
[ __ ]
and so like it helped me because then I
started doing [ __ ] they were all like
researchers and like studying like the
origins of schizophrenia and like
starting businesses and stuff like that
these are the people that I would be
on-call with then it's like well [ __ ]
like I like to play video games like I'm
a gamer and all these people they're
like MD PhDs in an institution on in the
Northeast which I shall not name and
then like I was like well [ __ ] maybe I
should do something and I was like I
don't want it so I tried doing things
their way I was like let me try doing
research students like this [ __ ]
sucks and I was like I like to play
video games maybe I can do research on
that maybe I could do something for
gamers I was like oh this is pretty cool
but if I hadn't been at that institution
I probably probably would have entered
my mind to do research or and/or start a
company that's devoted to helping a
particular problem so create your
community okay so let me think about
this so I've struggle with this problem
I basically get really into something
for a few months to here and then stop
caring and lose motivation I'm not sure
if it's feeling or failure or what I
would seriously love your thoughts yeah
so I don't think it's fear of failure I
mean it could be but I would guess that
you just get bored right today actually
use the word bored yeah so I think what
what motivates you is like learning a
new problem right it's like something
that's new and exciting and so I think
the problem is that you give up when the
end is in sight like it's sort of like
and that's not because and that's just
because you figured stuff out at that
point I would be really curious about
whether this person gives up motivation
towards the end because like they
figured it out like the fun part is the
figuring it out so it's kind of weird
but this is I was planning on becoming
an oncologist and part of the reason I
didn't become an oncologist and this
isn't to diss anyone but I just found
that like figuring out medicine was fun
like figuring out how the heart works
was fun figuring out how cancer works
was fun figuring out like how the
kidneys work was fun but once I figured
it out I started to get bored of it
I was kind of like well like now it's
just the same thing okay like if their
heart works this way then I do this it
works this way I do this that all these
protocols because we use evidence-based
medicines there of all these big trials
and it's really like figuring out okay
like which is the best treatment based
on all this available data and what I
liked about psychiatry is like I have no
[ __ ] idea what to do
there is no like protocol it's like when
sky shows up like I don't know what to
say like I've talked to him once before
like I don't know what like he's a
different person now like I don't know
what to do that's fun for me
I get bored easily too so I like I'm
like I don't know I don't know if I'm
gonna do a healthy game for 20 years
like I may just stop in a year like I
the same thing happens to me I like get
interested with stuff and I move on and
that's fine so I think that what the
second thing that I suggest is that it's
not that you're like lazy it's that you
get bored easily right I'm not gonna
leave you don't worry but
you know I'd say that this person kind
of gets bored easily and so like if
that's your problem then I would say
like try to do a couple of different
things at the same time this is gonna
sound kind of weird but if you get bored
of marketing like start a marketing
thing and then shift 80% of your focus
to something else but maintain 20% to
focus in marketing because the way that
you're gonna grow is when you get bored
let's say you want to learn piano and
you like marketing so like oh like I'm
kind of done with marketing let me go to
piano and then if you maintain the
marketing a little bit when you get
bored of piano you can come back to
marketing it'll be just as fun as it
originally was
so you can kind of juggle a couple of
different things so one one of my
teachers once told me that like your
problem is that you get bored easily and
so you should try to do multiple things
and when you get bored of one thing then
you can move to the next thing and where
you get bored of that thing you come
back to number one so now I do like two
or three things and that's just how my
day is like I can't see
I saw patients for a few hours this
morning and then I stream like part of
healthy gamers because I couldn't just
work with people in my office all day
that's [ __ ] boring it's not that I
don't like him it's just I get bored and
so I try to create a life in which I'm
like stimulated so like I do I do
streaming and then like I'm gonna like
maybe make some videos or something like
that and then I work with some patients
I like talk to researchers and I'm
thinking about like doing some research
so I try to do like a few different
things and so like I'd say don't just do
one thing but like keep it on the
backburner and do something else and
then once you have like three things
that you're kind of committed to then
you rotate between the three and you'll
be amazed at how much you can accomplish
which porn
[Music]